---
title: 2017 Books 
layout: post
tags: books
local: 2017-01-01-2017-books
---

What a way to start 2017! I sat at home all day and finished my first book of
the year. The Four Legendary Kingdoms by Matthew Reilly. I will be updating this
post as I read more throughout the year.

* TOC
{:toc}

### Algorithms to Live By - Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths
7th October 2017.I have Computer Science background but still found many
snippets of information I found to be helpful. I learnt quite a few new things,
such as the optimal stopping rule of 37% and stuff like that. I really like the
second last paragraph of the entire book.

> And indeed, people are almost always confronting what computer science regards
> as the hard cases. Up against such hard cases, effective algorithms make
> assumptions, show a bias toward simpler solutions, trade off the costs of
> error against the costs of delay, and take chances. These aren't the
> concessions we make when we can't be rational. They're what being rational
> means.

I liked this a lot because as Man begins the search for True AI in the 21st
Century, we have to keep in mind that perhaps some approximations that work, do
really work because that's how it is in the real world. Searching for proofs
with guarantees are great but I tend toward things "that work well in the real
world". Without further ado, some quotes:

1. Instead, tackling real-world tasks requires being comfortable with chance,
   trading off time with accuracy, and using approximations (p. 5).
2. *The High Cost of Free Parking* by Donald Shoup might be an interesting book
   to read (p. 23).
3. As optimal stopping researcher Neil Bearden puts it, "After searching for
   a while, we humans just tend to get bored. It's not irrational to get bored,
   but it's hard to model that rigorously." (p. 29).
4. By entering an almost purely exploit-focused phase, the film industry seems
   to be signaling a belief that it is near the end of its interval. A look into
   the economics of Hollywood confirms this hunch. Profits of the largest film
   studios declined by 40% between 2007 and 2011, and ticket sales have declined
   in seven of the past ten years. Big studios have responded by trying to make
   more films they think will be hits: usually sequels, prequels, or anything
   featuring characters with name recognition (p. 35).
5. Finding optimal algorithms that tell us exactly how to handle the multi-armed
   bandit problem has proven incredibly challenging. Indeed, as Peter Whittle
   recounts, during WWII efforts to solve the question "so sapped the energies
   and minds of Allied analysts...that the suggestion was made that the problem
   be dropped over Germany, as the ultimate instrument of intellectual
   sabotage." (p. 36).
6. Bezos found a framework which made a decision incredibly easy: a regret
   minimization framework (p. 43).
7. Obama's donation page and Siroker's A/B tests (p. 46).
8. Between 1932 and 1972, several hundred African-American men with syphilis in
   Macon County, Alabama, went deliberately untreated by medical professionals,
   as part of a forty-year experiment by the US Public Health Service known as
   the Tuskegee Syphilis Study (p. 49).
9. 1990s study where people were given a choice between two options, one with a
   known payoff chance and one unknown - specifically two airlines, an
   established carrier with a known on-time rate and a new company without a
   track record yet by Robert Meyer and Yong Shi (p. 53).
10. One of the curious things about human beings, which any developmental
    psychologist aspires to understand and explain, is that we take years to
    become competent and autonomous (p. 55).
11. Herman Hollerith invented the Hollerith Machine and his company was
    eventually merged to form IBM (p. 60).
12. The truncated top of an immense, sorted list is in many ways the universal
    user interface (p. 61). 
13. Charles Lutwidge Dodgson did not like the structure of the Single
    Elimination tournament as it wasn't an accurate depiction of the real
    situation. In other words, the silver medal is a lie. He had a cumbersome
    solution of triple elimination but it never caught on. His critique of the
    problem though was accurate. As another fun fact, he also wrote Alice in
    Wonderland (p. 75).
14. As Michael Trick points out, sports leagues aren't concerned with
    determining the rankings as quickly and expeditiously as possible. Instead,
    sports calendars are explicitly designed to maintain tension throughout the
    season, something that has rarely been a concern of sorting theory (p. 76). 
15. Tom Murphy applied numerical modeling techniques to soccer and concluded
    that soccer's low scores make game outcomes much closer to random than most
    fans would prefer to imagine (p. 77). 
16. Comparison Counting Sort is the best algorithm in the face of a noisy
    comparator (p. 78).
17. Much as we bemoan the daily rat race, the fact that it's a race rather than
    a fight is a key part of what sets us apart from the monkeys, the chickens -
    and, for that matter, the rats (p. 83).
18. The Mars rover in 1997 had an error due to poor scheduling - priority
    inversion. A low priority task perhaps locked the database, is interrupted,
    and then the scheduler takes over and sends a high priority task up but it
    can't be run because the database is locked. It then runs all the medium
    priority tasks (which are unblocked) before it reaches the original low
    priority task blocking the database (p. 114). A pretty costly error if
    software can't fix it.
19. The best time to plant a tree is twenty years ago. The second best time is
    now (p. 118).
20. If it's less than an hour I'll just do errands instead, because it'll take
    me the first thirty-five minutes to really figure out what I want to do and
    then I might not have time to do it (p. 121). Pretty good life advice,
    especially for coding. It sometimes takes half an hour to get up to speed
    and when you leave for a coffee break then, all work done previously is
    wasted. 
21. When merely remembering everything we need to be doing occupies our full
    attention - or prioritizing every task consumes all the time we had to do
    them - or our train of thought is continually interrupted before those
    thoughts can translate to action - it feels like panic, like paralysis by
    way of hyperactivity. It's thrashing, and computers know it well (p. 123).
22. Part of what makes real-time scheduling so complex and interesting is that
    it is fundamentally a negotiation between two principles that aren't fully
    compatible. These two principles are called responsiveness and throughput:
    how quickly you can respond to things, and how much you can get done overall
    (p. 124). 
23. All human knowledge is uncertain, inexact, and partial - Bertrand Russell
    (p. 128).
24. Walter Mischel and marshmallow experiments (wait 5 minutes for an extra
    marshmallow or eat one now) (p. 146).
25. Simply put, the representation of events in the media does not track their
    frequency in the world. As sociologist Barry Glassner notes, the murder
    rate in the US declined by 20% over the course of the 1990s, yet during that
    time period the presence of gun violence on American news increased by 600%
    (p. 148). 
26. Perhaps nowhere, however, is overfitting as powerful and troublesome as in
    the world of business. "Incentive structures work," as Steve Jobs put it.
    "So you have to be very careful of what you incent people to do, because
    various incentive structures create all sorts of consequences that you can't
    anticipate." Sam Altman, president of the startup incubator Y Combinator,
    echoes Job's words of caution: "It really is true that the company will
    build whatever the CEO decides to measure." (p. 157).
27. Living organisms get a certain push towards simplicity almost automatically,
    thanks to the constraints of time, memory, energy, and attention (p. 161).
28. Giving yourself more time to decide about something does not necessarily
    mean that you'll make a better decision. But it does guarantee that you'll
    end up considering more factors, more hypotheticals, more pros and cons, and
    thus risk overfitting (p. 166).
29. Meghan Bellows and the wedding optimization problem (p. 170).
30. Simulated annealing was born out of trying to make better chip layouts at
    IBM (p. 199).
31. Leonard Kleinrock recalls about his own encounters with the
    telecommunications industry with regard to circuit switching and packet
    switching: "Little boy, go away." So little boy went away and, with others,
    developed this technology which ate their lunch (p. 207). 
32. The Byzantine General Problem (p. 209).
33. The Peter Principle (p. 219). 
34. A poor listener destroys the tale (p. 221).
35. Roughgarden and Tardos work on "selfish routing" (p. 237).
36. Unlimited vacation policy and game theory (p. 239 - 242).
37. Information cascades (p. 251). 
38. Vickrey auction (p. 252).
39. The paradox of shooting a random time and day next week instead of "when are
    you free". The former works a lot better because it constraints the problem
    for your target (p. 257).
40. Politely witholding your preferences puts the computational problem of
    inferring them on the rest of the group. In contrast, politely asserting
    your preferences helps shoulder the cognitive load of moving the group
    toward resolution (p. 259). 

### Art & Fear - David Bayles and Ted Orland 
22nd January 2017. This book has been on my reading list for a particularly long
time. I really liked that story about the ceramics teacher splitting the class
into two - half will be graded on quantity, the other on quality. I mentioned
this quote in a speech I gave to the Freshmores at SUTD so I won't reproduce it
in full. As the title mentioned, it's about art. If you would replace every
'art' with 'company' or 'entrepreneurship', it would start sounding like an
entrepreneurship book. Take this quote for example:

- *Your materials are, in fact, one of the few elements of artmaking you can
  reasonably hope to control. As for everything else - well, conditions are
  never perfect, sufficient knowledge rarely at hand, key evidence always
  missing, and support notoriously fickle. All that you do will inevitably be
  flavored with uncertainty... (pg. 19)*

So true! This is exactly like doing a start-up. It's about getting into a car
with some idea of where you want to go, but you don't need to know the entire
route (possible road blocks, toilet stops, car workshops, etc.). Just deal with
the uncertainty!

Or take this quote for example:

- *Adams was right: to require perfection is to invite paralysis. (pg. 30)*

Very similar to the story on ceramics class. Yes, perfection is something that
perhaps one should pursue. But one should never "not do anything" in pursuit of
perfection. Just keep making pots!

One quote on becoming more skilled struck me. We all want to become better at
something. Therefore, the easiest thing we do is to pursue technical challenges
as they have clear goals and measurable feedback. You can write great and
efficient code. You can play a really technical piano piece. However:

- *The underlying problem with this is not that the pursuit of technical
  excellence is wrong, exactly, but simply that making it the primary goal puts
  the cart before the horse. (pg. 95)*

Fo example when mastering Machine Learning and the Mathematics behind it, we
sometimes forget to think creatively and miss out some possible insights! 

Overall, a great book I highly recommend to everyone. Artists, programmers, and
entrepreneurs alike.

### Case Interview Secrets - Victor Cheng
2nd April 2017. Decided to read this book because knowing about case interviews
and management consulting is good general knowledge. I've always wondered why
some firms love to give "estimation questions". In management consulting,
clients always ask such questions like "how big is market X?". The ability to
estimate closely and quickly is valuable.  Clients also value the ability to
resolve long-standing debates of *opinions*, using *estimates* based on
reasonable *assumptions* (p.  20).

Estimation Skills:

1. Doing precise arithmetic with large numbers
2. Rounding numbers intelligently.
3. Finding a proxy.
4. Identifying how the proxy is imperfect.
5. Segmenting estimates to minimize proxy imperfections.
6. Solve segmented estimates with assumptions.

Why do such firms use case interviews?

1. Case interviews mirror consultants' on-the-job experience (p. 38).

Mindsets to maintain when in a case interview or even when you're a consultant.

1. When the interviewer asks you a random question in an interview, stop
   thinking like a candidate trying to impress the interviewer. Instead, think
   like a consultant: Ask yourself what you would feel comfortable saying to a
   client, knowing your firm's reputation is on the line - because it is (p.
   38).
2. The consultant's official role in the interview is to decide whether the firm
   should hire you. She is also thinking, *Do I want you on my team right now?
   Will my life get easier if you're on my team?* Phrased differently, the
   interviewer is asking herself, *Will you be an independent problem solver
   fairly quickly, or will I have to babysit you for the next 2 years of your
   career?* (p.  44)
3. Given the client's main objective, what *key* information is needed to answer
   the client's question? Don't boil the ocean. If your client wants a cup of
   hot water, you could scoop a cup out and boil it, or boil the entire ocean
   and then scoop a cup out (p. 45).
4. When thinking of using the word *always*, think twice. It's a superlative
   that is really hard to defend. If you really insist on using a strong word,
   then you can either *get more factual evidence to support your argument,
   which takes time*, or *soften the language of your argument and use the facts
   you already have.* (p. 49)
5. Clients do not accept factually accurate recommendations; they accept
   factually supported recommendations *they can understand* (p. 50). 
6. If your clients don't follow your argument, guess whose fault it is? If
   you're a super-brilliant consultant but you make the senior client feel dumb
   because he couldn't follow your argument, guess what? Someone's getting fired
   from the relationship, and it won't be the client (p. 50). Some clients
   actually don't see the value of paying a firm millions of dollars for a
   consultant to be there, so don't put on airs. 
7. Think and communicate linearly. A -> B, B -> C, therefore A -> C (p. 50).
8. *Process excellence* is important. The ability to follow a structured,
   analytical problem-solving *process*; and the ability to reach the correct
   conclusions based on that process. Of these, the former is more important (p.
   53).
9. The majority of the time spent is *not* spent on solving the client's
   problem. It's spent on isolating the underlying cause of the client's
   problem. Never ever propose a solution to a case until you've isolated and
   defined the problem. Then and only then can you propose a solution (p. 97).

With this in mind, we move on to the core problem solving tools. Hypothesis;
Issue-tree; Drill-down analysis; Synthesis. Synthesis is extremely important
because it conveys the message with clarity and confidence. Here is an example
of how the message can be delivered to the client, and we should all work
towards this: **Client should do X because it will have ripple effects Y and Z,
both of which are favourable. There may be concern about issue A, but the
benefits of ripple effects Y and Z outweigh it.**.

Hypothesis

- In science, the scientific method is an iterative cycle, with each phase based
  on a slightly different hypothesis born of the observations made in the
  previous phase. This iterative process captures the essence of the aspiring
  consultant's ideal problem solving process (p. 58).
  - Interviewer: Company ABC's profit is down 20 percent.
  - Candidate: I'm going to hypothesize (based on some background information)
    that the client's industry is in a price war, which has caused the client's
    sales and profits to decline. To test this hypothesis, I need to know how
    the components of profits have changed since last year. In particular, I
    need to know how sales and expenses have changed since last year.
  - Sales have remained unchanged, and costs have increased by 20%.
  - My conclusion is that my initial hypothesis seems to have been proven false.
    It looks like the client is facing a cost problem more so than a revenue
    problem. My next hypothesis is ...
- **Always state a hypothesis in a case interview. You almost immediately fail
  if you don't.** (p. 70)
  - The next question then is, when?
  - Consider what works with clients. If you meet client team members for the
    first time and tell them your hypothesis as to what is wrong with their
    company *before* you even ask them any questions, they look at you with
    suspicion and distrust. Ask some questions first and then state a
    hypothesis. But don't forget to state one.
  - *The hypothesis is more important than the framework.* (p. 84)

Issue tree

- The only reason you use a framework or issue tree is to test a hypothesis (p.
  75). Hence, always state a hypothesis!
- Validity tests for issue trees:
  - Does the tree make sense given the hypothesis?
  - Are the branches mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive? This point
    is hard at times, but try and fulfil it. Grouping customers according to age
    is good, but hobbies is not that good, as people can have multiple hobbies.
  - Conclusiveness test. If all the branches of the issue tree turn out to be
    true, it is almost impossible to imagine a scenario in which the opposite of
    the hypothesis would be true. Basically, flip a few statements and see if
    you can still make the hypothesis true.
  - When the entire issue tree is drawn out, communicate all branches and talk
    about which branch you will analyse first.

Drill-down analysis

- Start with the branch that eliminates the most uncertainty first. Example: My
  hypothesis is that the client's profitability problem is driven by a revenue
  decline, not a cost increase. I'd like to draw out this issue tree to show
  both sides. I'll start with the revenue side and, if necessary, circle back to
  the cost side (p. 93).
- 70/30 quantitative and qualitative analysis. An appropriately quantitatively
  oriented candidate would hear that same background and seek to *quantitatively
  verify what she has heard qualitatively.* (p. 94)

Synthesis

- Tells the client *what* to do, *what you discovered* and *what it means*.
  Couches your recommendation *in the context* of the overall business, not just
  in terms of the single decision the client asked you to assess.
- State action-oriented recommendation/conclusion. Supporting point 1.
  Supporting point 2. Supporting point 3. Restate recommendation/conclusion (p.
  103).
- Synthesis doesn't only have to be at the end. It can be during drill-down
  analysis. "I can conclude that sales are not causing the profit problem,
  because first, sales have remained unchanges in the past year, and second,
  costs have gone up by $10 million and account for 100% of the problem. I would
  like to analyze costs now to understand better which costs have increased and
  why." (p. 111)

The key to mastering cases is to use these 4 concepts and lots of practice.
Frameworks can help, which is what I will summarize next. The mistake made is to
memorize frameworks. There is an infinite number of cases in the world. One can
never memorize enough. 3 core frameworks, together with the principled approach
of following the 4 concepts, can cover many of the cases one will encounter.

Profitability Framework

Profit

- Revenue
    - Price/Unit
    - No. of Units Sold
- Cost
    - Cost/Unit
        - Fixed Cost/Unit
        - Variable Cost/Unit
    - No. of Units Sold

The key is to keep segmenting! After segmenting in this way, go further and
segment each unit into the component parts. That way, you can isolate the
problem. For example, units sold in Europe are up 20 percent and in Asia they're
down 20 percent. If there's enough background information for you to segment it,
do it. Else, just simply say "segment into component parts" because the
interviewer might have the information ready.

Business Situation Framework

Customer
- Who is the customer?
    - Identify segments (segment size, growth rate, percentage of market)
    - Compare current-year metrics to historical metrics (look for trends)
- What does each customer segment want? (identify key needs)
    - What are their needs and buying criteria?
    - What's important to them?
    - Why do they buy?
    - How do they decide?
- Price sensitivity of each segment.
- Distribution channel preference by segment.
    - Websites
    - Mail-order catalogs
    - Reseller like Walmart
    - Sales force that visits clients in person
    Overall different customers prefer to buy through different distribution
    channels. A client sometimes wants to serve a particular customer segment,
    but the client's primary distribution channel is one that customers in that
    segment refuse to use. This conflict needs to be resolved in order for the
    client to have an effective strategy. In some technology markets, Fortune
    500 CIOs prefer to deal with one salesperson per company (p. 135). So it's
    important to think about this.  
- Customer concentration and power.
    - This refers to how many customers exist and how big or small they are. If
      customers are more concentrated, then the customers can demand (and get)
      big price discounts. If suppliers (the client's company and its
      competitors) are more concentrated, then the vendors in the industry have
      the power to set high prices, and customers have no choice but to buy at
      those prices (p. 136).

Product
- Nature of product 
    - What does the product do?
    - Why do people buy it?
    - Why is it useful?
    - Is it a nice-to-have or a must-have?
- Commodity or differentiable good
    - Commodity type product identical across competitors or a unique product?
    Large companies tend to win in commodity markets and company size is a less
    relevant factor for unique products (p. 138).
- Identify complementary goods
    - If your client manufactures peanut butter, you might wanna recommend your
      client to sell jelly. If your client sells ketchup, you might wanna
      consider selling fries (p. 138).
    - That's how cheese and crackers were conceptualized (p. 138).
    - GE going into maintenance contracts (p. 138).
- Identify substitutes (indirect competitors? don't buy anything?)
    - If Company X does not buy the latest Y:
        - Do they just use an older system?
        - Do they do Z manually, even though it takes more time?
        - Do they skip the analysis?
    Lack of *direct competition* doesn't mean the customer doesn't have
    *alternatives* to buying your product, which would include the customer just
    living with his or her problems rather than paying for your product to solve
    them (p. 140).
- Product's life cycle (new vs. obsolete)
    - If it's new, can it last 20 more years?
    - If it's obsolete, is it in it's last year or two of market usefulness?
- Packaging
    - McDonald's meal (p. 140). Sales increased by 30%.

Company
- Capabilities and expertise
    - What does this company do well?
    - What does this company do differently than its competitors?
- Distribution channels
    - E-Commerce?
    - Sales force?
    - Middlemen wholesalers?
    - Direct to customers?
- Cost structure (fixed vs. variable). Simply use the profitability framework
  model.
- Investment cost (optional: only if case involves an investment decision)
- Intangibles
    - Brand name?
    - Reputation?
    - Culture?
- Financial situation
- Organizational structure
    This aspect is important in execution. Conflicts between structure and
    strategy? Are people on all levels of the hierarchy happy with this?

Competition
- Competitor market share concentration
    - How many competitors are there?
    - How big is each of them?
    - Example: $1 billion in annual sales from 100 companies or 3 companies? Big
      difference.
- Competitor behaviors (target segment, products, pricing, distribution)
    - What strategic choices do key competitors make?
    - Who are their customers?
    - What products do they offer?
    - What distribution channels do they use?
    Notice that this is similar to the business situation framework.
- Best practices (are they doing things we're not?)
- Barriers to entry (do we need to worry about any new entrants to market?)
- Supplier concentration
    - Monopoly or many fragmented suppliers?
    - Sometimes competitors act in response to the dictates of a handful of
      powerful suppliers.
- Regulatory environment

More often than not, one doesn't finish the entire business situation framework.
You might get some key insight. Remember, what is the *least* amount of
information I need to solve the problem? The purpose of the framework is to test
a hypothesis, **NOT TO COMPLETE IT**. 

The next chapters talks about M&A framework, frameworks in action, and the
various forms of case interviews - candidate led, interviewer led, group,
written, presentation-only, etc. Won't be talking about it much.  I'll have to
pull out this book again and revise if I'm ever going for a management
consulting interview. 

### Delivering Happiness - Tony Hsieh
14th December 2017. Tony is the CEO of Zappos and this book talks a little bit
about his life at the start to introduce the context and then goes on to talk
about how he built Zappos. The book was pretty much chronological. Zappos
morphed from having a goal of being the largest online shoe store to delivering
happiness. The first takeaway that I had was that having a vision is extremely
important. Vision guides everything, and this reinforces the beliefs I
previously had. The second takeaway that I had was that values are extremely
important, which once again reinforces my current beliefs. Ever since I read
Meditations by Marcus Aurelius, I've held the belief that values are timeless
and never change. Read the texts by the ancients and extract key values from
them and live by it. As it seems right now, vision and values are key to life
and I'll probably not change this world view any time soon. Unless of course I
read more books and they consistently say something else that makes sense. 

Some books that Tony talked about in this book are *Good to Great by Jim
Collins*, and *Tribal Leadership*. I'll probably pick them up some time in the
future. 

### Einstein - His Life and Universe - Walter Isaacson 
20th February 2017. Finally finished reading Einstein's biography. It was a
really tough read I must say. Spent quite a long time trying to finish it. Some
parts were really boring and so many characters were involved. 

Key takeaways:
1. Always have the curiosity of a child when faced with a problem.
2. Is nature truly simple? Newton and Einstein seemed to believe fervently in
   this.
3. Be willing to challenge authority and be nonconformist.

*I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.*

Always remember this.

### Getting Things Done - The Art of Stress-Free Productivity - David Allen
14th October 2017. This is one of two books that came in the starter package at
Palantir. You might be doing most of the things mentioned in the book
unknowingly already, but this book formalizes what we might be doing right now
and gives a structured way to implement it and be effective in daily life. I'm
starting to implement it myself in my day to day activities but revisiting it in
future is definitely necessary.

1. **The methods I present here are all based on two key objectives. First,
   capturing all the things that need to get done - now, later, someday, big,
   little, or in between - into a logical and trusted system outside of your
   head and off your mind. Second, disciplining yourself to make front-end
   decisions about all of the "inputs" you let into your life so that you will
   always have a plan for "next actions" that you can implement or renegotiate
   at any moment.** (p. 3).
2. Anything that causes you to overreact or underreact can control you, and
   often does (p. 11).
3. Most of the stress people experience comes from inappropriately managed
   commitments they make or accept (p. 12).
4. The real issue is how to make appropriate choices about what to do at any
   point in time. The real issue is how we manage actions (p. 19).
5. If you write something in your calendar, it must get done that day or not at
   all. The only rewriting should be for changed appointments (p. 41).
6. Do up checklists. Life SOPs basically (p. 179).
7. Always have a "what's the next action?" (p. 236).

There were many more pointers inside that I didn't type out as this book is
something that you must internalize. 

### Move Fast and Break Things - Jonathan Taplin
30th December 2017. 

> I think the growth of advertising in our time is symbolic of a deep crisis in
> capitalism (p. 275).

> If I were to predict the future, I would hope to see Tim Berners-Lee's dream
> of a "re-decentralized" Internet, one that's much less dependent on
> surveillance marketing and that allows creative artists to take advantage of
> the zero-marginal-cost economics of the Web in a series of nonprofit
> distribution cooperatives (p. 282).

Why do companies pay so much for advertising? Do we even respond to that
irritating 15-second advertisement we see midway through a video, when the most
exciting part is about to happen? It actually makes me take note of that brand
more and NOT buy it. Does the classic model of generating lots of data about
users and then using that to serve ads make sense? Proponents would argue that
payment for the service is through the collection of data. Opponents would argue
that the data belongs to the users and perhaps users should take a cut of
profits. Of course, this is a gross oversimplification and you have to read this
book to take in all points in its entirety. If you have ever wondered about
these questions, then this book is definitely for you.

Done with the questions/schpiel to hook users in. This book is really awesome in
so many ways that if I had to name the best book I read in 2017, it would be
this. Consolidating all my thoughts and writing it into an essay would be a
great injustice to the book so I'll reserve that for a time in the future where
I have to extract salient points for an essay. Here are the sections I found
really interesting:

1. Throughout history, the artist has pointed out the injustices of society ...
   The history of art is the history of subversion, of a person like Galileo
   saying that everything you know is wrong ... The transcendentalism of Emerson
   and Thoreau in the 1830s was the first "great refusal" - the refusal to
   accept slavery and American imperialism - which thirty years later produced
   Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation ... (p. 10)
2. But as one travels through America's Rust Belt cities, where the forces of
   technology have destroyed jobs, one sees signs of real suffering - high rates
   of addiction and suicide and shortened life expectancies (p. 14). Chattanooga
   was a positive example of a turned around Rust Belt city that was mentioned
   later in the book. It'd be good to visit this city some day.
3. In economics, a "rent" is money you make because you control something scarce
   and desirable, whether it's an oil field or a monopolistic position in a
   market...The left, right and center of the economics profession all agree
   that reducing rent-seeking behavior, and improving overall growth, is
   essential if we want to "make America great again." (p. 16). This is
   something I've always been thinking of. Landlords and their descendants can
   basically not work for the rest of their life if their assets are managed
   properly. A rentier society is essentially really bad.
4. Sometimes we get, I think, in the tech community, the entrepreneurial
   community, the sense of - we just have to blow up the system, or create this
   parallel society and culture because government is inherently wrecked. No,
   it's not inherently wrecked; it's just government has to care for, for
   example, veterans who come home. That's not on your balance sheet, that's on
   our collective balance sheet, because we have a sacred duty to take care of
   those veterans. And that's hard and it's messy, and we're building up legacy
   systems that we can't just blow up (p. 24).
5. Show me a good loser and I'll show you a loser (p. 70). Interesting point
   about Peter Thiel. He read Solzhenitsyn and Rand. These 2 authors are on my
   to read list.
6. Hermann Hoppe wrote a book called *Democracy: The God That Failed*, which
   makes the argument that we need to return to a more authoritarian form of
   government. Here is Hoppe's thesis: In the United States, less than a century
   of full-blown democracy has resulted in steadily increasing moral
   degeneration, family and social disintegration, and cultural decay in the
   form of continually rising rates of divorce, illegitimatacy, abortion and
   crime. As a result of an ever-expanding list of non-discrimination -
   "affirmative action" - laws and non-discriminatory, multicultural,
   egalitarian immigration policies, every nook and cranny of American society
   is affected by government management and forced integration; accordingly,
   social strife and racial ethnic and moral-cultural tension and hostility have
   increased dramatically (p. 74). Another book to add to the to read list.
7. Thiel believes the basic Randian concept that governments cannot be trusted
   with currency (hence Paypal). From there, he moved on to set up the basic
   principles that would constitute the foundation for most new Internet
   fortunes. The 4 principles are:

     - Build proprietary technology and invest in monopolies, not competitive
       businesses.
     - Build businesses that have "network effects".
     - Economies of scale.
     - Branding.

   p. 76
8. Jefferson had also read of the Great Bengal Famine of 1770, which resulted in
   the deaths of ten million people. The British East India Company forced
   Bengal farmers to grow opium --- which the company intended to export to
   China --- instead of food crops, resulting in a shortage of grain for the
   local inhabitants. Jefferson saw the havoc that unrestrained monopoly could
   deliver (p. 114). This was why he campaigned hard for this to be included in
   the Bill of Rights, but Hamilton won, setting the stage for American business
   to be ruled by giant corporations (p. 114).
9. Peter Orszag agrees, telling a Sydney, Australia, audience that Facebook and
   Google are "monopolies that are using our personal information without paying
   us and extracting a monopoly rent by selling ads based on that personal
   information." (p. 118). 
10. The part on Indian Government ruling that Facebook should not be able to
    "shape users" Internet experience by providing only a limited set of sites
    (p. 144).
11. Researchers have long known that five broad categories drive online
    activity: information seeking, interpersonal communication, self-expression,
    passing time and entertainment. In the study led by Daniel Hunt, the goal
    was to see if the same measures drove people to spend time on Facebook. The
    study confirmed that, with the exception of information seeking, all of the
    other behavioral factors that drive online activity hold true for Facebook,
    with entertainment and time passing being two of the biggest drivers of
    Facebook activity (p. 151).
12. If you look at feedback loops like likes and retweets, they've been very
    carefully crafted to maximize certain types of behaviors. But if we reward
    people based on a measurement system where there's literally no difference
    between a one-second page view or reading something that brought them value
    or changed their mind, it's like --- your job is feeding people, but all
    you're measuring is maximizing calorie delivery. So what you'd learn is that
    junk food is more efficient than healthy, nourishing food (p. 165). My
    sentiments exactly on this! Hence the part on Tim Berners-Lee mentioning
    that there needs to be a way to change the Internet so such micropayments
    can be made is so important.
13. Twitter's free speech advocates Gabriel Stricker and Vijaya Gadde, who were
    refusing to take down the ISIS beheading videos (p. 183). Really...? They
    got into a huge argument with Dick Costolo, and they won. 
14. American firms (mostly tech) sit on 1.9 trillion in cash (p. 201). Wow.
15. The immediate issue is the Uber-izing of human labor, fragmenting of jobs
    into outsourced tasks and dismantling of wages into micropayments. The
    workers on these platforms have no job security and no benefits (p. 204).
16. In 1930 the British economist John Maynard Keynes wrote that in the future
    we would have to worry about "technological unemployment...due to our
    discovery of means of economising the use of labour outrunning the pace at
    which we can find new uses for labour." (p. 206). Exactly what's happening
    now or what's going to happen. And simply characterizing this as just a
    "skills problem" is shortsighted (p. 207). The notion that a fifty-year-old
    autoworker replaced by a robot is going to retrain himself as a software
    coder and apply for work at Google seems to be a pipe dream that only
    someone as rich and insulated as Marc Andreessen could conceive (p. 207).
    Well, I have to say this is a stretch and I'm sure the autoworker could be
    reskilled somewhere close to his original job.
17. The anonymity that Twitter provides is a shield that brings out the worst in
    humans. Plato (Republic 2.359a - 2.360d) told a tale of the Ring of Gyges:
    when put on, it would render the wearer invisible. He hasked the question:
    If we were shielded from the consequences of our actions, how would that
    change the way we act? We know the answer (p. 217).
18. Entire story on Wael Ghonim, the Egyptian Google employee who helped launch
    the Tahrir Square revolution in early 2011 that toppled Hosni Mubarak (p.
    221).
19. Story on China's Social Credit Score (p. 223).
20. Jefferson's great inspiration, the Greek philosopher Epicurus, who defined
    the good life and freedom in the following terms:
        - The company of good friends.
        - The freedom and autonomy to enjoy meaningful work.
        - The willingness to live an examined life with a core faith or
          philosophy.
    p. 225
21. Entire section on commoditization of media by Facebook, Youtube, and Google
    and the effects on our culture (p. 240).
22. Neil Postman's summary: What Orwell feared were those who would ban books.
    What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for
    there would be no one who wanted to read one. Orwell feared those who would
    deprive us of information.  Huxley feared those who would give us so much
    that we would be reduced to passivity and egoism. Orwell feared that the
    truth would be concealed from us. Huxley feared the truth would be drowned
    in a sea of irrelevance. Orwell feared we would become a captive culture.
    Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture, preoccupied with some
    equivalent of the feelies (his equivalent of IMAX movies), the orgy porgy,
    and the centrifugal bumblepuppy (p. 244). The author believes Huxley's
    vision is more true today. I agree too.
23. And even if you believe that robots will be able to fill most jobs, MIT's
    Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolfsson have pointed out that "understanding and
    addressing the societal challenges brought on by rapid technological
    progress remain tasks that no machine can do for us." (p. 248). This is a
    huge concern for me and something I think about everyday. What happens when
    autonomous trucks are prevalent? Or evens semi-autonomous ones for that
    matter, since this is closer to reality, where a driver can now do the job
    of 10?
24. Once a song is on a Spotify server, the cost of selling one more stream is
    zero. But here is the paradox: If information goods are to be distributed at
    their marginal cost of production --- zero --- they cannot be created and
    produced by entrepreneurial firms that use revenues obtained from sales to
    consumers to cover their [fixed set-up] costs. If information goods are to
    be created and produced...[companies] must be able to anticipate selling
    their products at a profit to someone (p. 249).
25. **If indeed two hundred million people currently use ad blockers and the
    distinction between TV and the Web is dissolving, then we need to rethink
    how content gets paid for. Tim Berners-Lee, the Web's inventor, has an idea.
    "Ad revenue is the only model for too many people on the web now,"
    Berners-Lee told the *New York Times*. "People assume today's consumer has
    to make a deal with a marketing machine to get stuff for 'free', even if
    they're horrified by what happens with their data. Imagine a world where
    paying for things was easy on both sides." Berners-Lee speculates about a
    kind of micropayment system that would allow you to easily pay fifteen cents
    on your mobile bill for a piece of content. But until that is invented, my
    guess is that the most efficient model would be an all-you-can-watch
    subscription model that would not be too different from what you are paying
    now to your cable or telephone company (p. 252).**
26. Eight Nobel Prizes have been awarded to Bell Labs scientists. It was the
    most productive research facility in history; in fact most of the
    achievements of the digital age rest on its inventions (p. 260).
27. However, Google's use of patents has often crossed the line. They were
    censured by the FTC in 2012 over their efforts to block US imports of
    smartphones made by Microsoft and Apple by asserting that the devices, which
    rely on industry-standard technology, infringe patents owned by Google's
    Motorola Mobility unit (p. 261).
28. Entire story of Electric Power Board of Chattanooga (p. 262).
29. Broadband transformed Chattanooga. They got screwed by globalization but is
    thriving now (p. 265). 
30. Entire story on the Sunkist co-op (p. 268).
31. Both Taylor Swift and Adele have used this windowing strategy with great
    success (p. 272).

As a last point, the author cited so many other authors in his book. He is so
well read that I am inspired to be like him. And this concludes the final book
of 2017.

### Only The Paranoid Survive - Andrew S. Grove 
12th March 2017. Andrew Grove was the CEO of Intel. He shares his insights on
how he managed the company in this book. Specifically, he talks a lot about
strategic inflection points and how to navigate them. These are points whereby
something huge has moved in the market. Something in the form of a 10X change.
These factors include competitors, complementors, customers, suppliers,
potential competitors, what your business is doing can be done in a different
way.

1. No amount of formal planning can anticipate changes in the market. You need
   to plan the way a fire department plans: It cannot anticipate where the next
   fire will be, so it has to shape an energetic and efficient team that is
   capable of responding to the unanticipated as well as to any ordinary event
   (p. 6).
2. Given the amorphous nature of an inflection point, how do you know the right
   moment to take appropriate action, to make the changes that will save your
   company or your career? Unfortunately, you don't. But you can't wait until
   you do know: Timing is everything (p. 35).
3. When you're caught in the turbulence of a strategic inflection point, the sad
   fact is that instinct and judgment are all you've got to guide you through
   (p.  35).
4. **To navigate these inflection points, you have to train your instincts to
   pick up a different set of signals. These signals may have been out there all
   along but you may have ignored them. The strategic inflection point is the
   time to wake up and listen (p. 35).** In other words, as the CEO, your job is
   really to gather information and piece a picture together and make critical
   decisions.  Hence, listening is a very important skill.
5. After 1981, when IBM chose Intel to provide the microprocessor in their PC,
   Intel grew to become the most widely accepted supplier of microprocessors.
   After that, industry participants in the layers above found it more
   economically advantageous to build their business on Intel architecture
   microchips than on any other. **If you base your business on the volume
   leader, you will be going after a larger business yourself (p. 46).**
6. In the early eighties, Michael Dell started supplying his friends with
   computers he assembled out of parts in his dorm room at the University of
   Texas (p. 48). He built his business from there.
7. General rules for horizontal industries. First, don't differentiate without a
   difference. **Don't introduce improvements whose only purpose is to give you
   an advantage over your competitor without giving your customer a substantial
   advantage.** Second, in this hypercompetitve horizontal world, opportunity
   knocks when a technology break or other fundamental change comes your way.
   The first mover and only the first mover has a true opportunity. Third, price
   for what the market will bear, price for volume, then work like the devil on
       your costs so that you can make money at that price (p. 51).
8. Jobs resisted PCs because he thought they were a mess. I should read his
   biography on this point (p. 59).
9. In 1931, Charlie Chaplin was still fighting the move to sound movies. Greta
   Garbo was a superstar of silent movies, and she moved to sound movies and
   became a success. The movie industry had a 10X technological change of "sound
   movies", and Greta Garbo navigated this inflection point (p. 61).
10. In 1906, the Food and Drugs Act was passed by Congress. The drug industry
    changed overnight. It revealed that many medicines contain alcohol,
    morphine, cannabis or cocaine (p. 72). Shocking!
11. In strategic inflection points, key personnel get replaced. It's not
    necessarily true that these people were incompetent. It might be more of a
    case that these people have devoted their entire lives to the company and
    therefore has a history of deep involvement in the sequence of events that
    led to the present mess, the new managers come unencumbered by such
    emotional involvement and therefore are capable of applying an impersonal
    logic to the situation. They can see things much more objectively than their
    predecessors did (p. 93).
12. **People in the trenches are usually in touch with impending changes early.
    Salespeople understand shifting customer demands before management does;
    financial analysts are the earliest to know when the fundamentals of a
    business change (p. 97).** Listen to people on the ground!
13. Signal or noise? The Japanese companies were going all in into x-ray
    technology for manufacturing. IBM classified this as signal, and Intel
    classified this as noise. Competent and serious-minded people came to a
    different set of conclusions about a given set of facts. This is not at all
    uncommon. You just have to keep it on your radar (p. 102).
14. Intel had trouble deciding between CISC or RISC. Even though the new RISC
    chip was faster and cheaper, it would have been incompatible with most of
    the software that was available in the marketplace. **Compatibility of a
    product was - and still is - a big factor.** 
    They decided on CISC in the end and when Grove looks back, RISC advantages
    are not that great over CISC (p. 106).
15. Cassandra was the priestess who foretold the fall of Troy. The Cassandras in
your organization are a consistently helpful element in recognizing strategic
inflection points. So who are they? They can come from anywhere in the company,
but they are usually in middle management. Often, they work in **sales**. They
experience the winds of the market. After all, bad sales affect them directly
and thus they take the warnings very seriously (p. 109).
16. You don't have to seek these Cassandras out; if you are in management, they
will find you. Like somebody who sells a product that he is passionate about,
they will "sell" their concern to you with a passion. **Don't argue with them;
even though it's time consuming, do your best to hear them out, and to learn
what they know and to understand why it affects them the way it does (p. 110).**
Classify the time you spend listening to them as an investment in learning
**what goes on at the distant periphery of your business.**
17. During Intel's exit from the memory business, it wasn't as cataclsymic
because finance and production planning people were already moving resources
from memory to microprocessors. When the time came, it was very easy to pull the
plug (p. 111). 
18. Peter Drucker quotes a definition of an entrepreneur as someone who moves
resources from areas of lower productivity and yield to areas of higher
productivity and yield (p. 111). Who's this guy anyway? Should check him out. 
19. In 1984, when Apple introduced the Macintosh, Grove thought it was a
ridiculous toy. Among other weaknesses Grove saw in it, it didn't have a hard
disk and it was excruciatingly slow. The first implementation of the Mac blinded
Grove to the far more important features that came with the graphical interfaces
(p. 112).
20. **You can't judge the significance of strategic inflection points by the
quality of the first version (p. 113).**
21. **It takes many years of consistent conduct to eliminate fear of punishment
as an inhibitor of strategic discussion. It takes only one incident to introduce
it. News of this incident will spread through the organization like wildfire and
shut everyone up (p. 119).**
22. **Management writers use the word "vision". What you're trying to do is
capture the essence of the company and the focus of its business. You are trying
to define what the company will be, yet that can only be done if you also
undertake to define what the company will *not* be (p. 140).**
23. It takes a lot of conviction and trusting your gut to get ahead of your
peers, your staff and your employees while they are still squabbling about which
path to take, and set an unhesitating, unequivocal course whose rightness or
wrongness wil not be known for years. Such a decision really tests the mettle of
the leader (p. 143).
24. Admitting that you need to learn something new is always difficult (p. 145).
Don't be afraid to ask!
25. Should you pursue a highly focused approach, betting everything on one
strategic goal or should you hedge? **Put all of your eggs in one basket and
watch that basket (Mark Twain)(p. 151).**
26. Most companies don't die because they are wrong; most die because they don't
commit themselves. They fritter away their momentum and their valuable resources
while attempting to make a decision. The greatest danger is in standing still
    (p. 152). 
27. Companies that successfully navigate through strategic inflection points
have a good dialectic between bottom-up and top-down actions (p. 159).

An overarching point that Grove talks about is allowing chaos in the company and
then controlling the chaos when the time is necessary. For example, when the
company is comfortable, let the company run and explore many directions, but
when it comes to crunch time, take in the reins. This book is really similar to
"The Hard Thing about Hard Things", which isn't surprising since Horowitz does
cite Grove a lot. I can start to see the convergence of many points. For
example, the CEO needs to have a strong acumen and courage. I guess this is what
they look out for in VCs. 

### Origin - Dan Brown
18th November 2017. I read this on the plane back from Palo Alto. I found this
book to be less exciting than Dan Brown's other books. There were many times
where the story line was quite predictable and it was (relatively) easy to guess
what's going to happen and who's the mastermind. I particularly liked the idea
of the simulation (not going to spoil it here). The fact that Dan Brown weaved
in elements of fact struck a chord with me as well (I like Matthew Reilly cause
of this too). I loved the conclusion though. At least Dan Brown didn't do a
"Transecendance". If he did, it would be totally cliche and that would have
thoroughly spoilt the book for many people. I'd say it's overall a pretty good
read and it's Dan Brown, so most people are going to pick it up anyway.


### Rework - Jason Fried and David Heinemeier Hansson
11th November 2017. Read this on a flight. It was a really short book and I
finished it within 2 hours. I really enjoyed the extremely succinct way of
writing. Enough was written to get the idea across. Nothing more and
nothing less. Each large idea took up at most 3 pages. It's something that
one can always read and re-read.

### The Four Legendary Kingdoms - Matthew Reilly 
1st January 2017. A pleasant surprise! Really delighted with this book for many
reasons. I never thought it was a sequel to 7AW, 6SS, 5GW. I knew it was Jack
West but it never occurred to me. We can expect 3 more books for this series I
guess! The moment one of the champions put on his anti-flash glasses, and when
they had to partner someone and that person was a large sized woman, it was so
striking that Scarecrow would be in this book. Reilly had finally combined the
main characters from 2 of his major series. I also liked the parallel drawn with
mythology. The part when Jack West faced off Scarecrow was expected, and it was
obvious that Scarecrow wouldn't die. I still liked it though.  

This book also introduced a large conspiracy theory of a shadow kingdom that
rules the world beneath governments. Given how old this world is, that might be
actually be true! But then again, that's just an idea, nothing much to ponder
over. An entertaining book and a great start to 2017!

### The Greatest Salesman in the World - Og Mandino
27th January 2017. A really thin book that can be finished in less than 2 hours.
I chanced upon this book through Amazon recommendations and cross-referencing it
of course. There are '10 Ancient Scrolls' inside this book, each to be read
thrice a day over 30 days.  The scrolls are about inducing a habit into you, and
they do make sense. So I'll definitely be trying this out this year.

### The Hard Thing about Hard Things - Ben Horowitz
27th February 2017. It's quite surprising that I finished this book within a
week from finishing Einstein's biography. It's 277 pages. Words are quite big
though. Perhaps that's why. I learnt many things from this book. And through
reading this book, I exactly see EF's perspective. Having said that, always
remember that there are 2 schools of thought. I've booked marked many pages in
this book so I'll list the learning points.

1. You have to keep secrets sometimes. When Ben was transiting to Opsware, he
had to give no indication to the rest of the staff what his plan was (p. 32).
2. Create artificial deadlines. Ben did this when negotiating the sale of
Loudcloud. Create urgency. Host both buying companies on your premises and time
it such that they walk by each other (p. 35).
3. Do everything and anything short of illegal or immoral to get the damned deal
done (p. 36).
4. Opsware bought Tangram just because the customer loved Tangram. Sometimes
acquisitions are done just to please a customer (p. 46).
5. "I have buy-in from my champion, the vice president that he reports to, and
the head of purchasing. My champion assures me that the deal will be done by the
end of the quarter." Mark Cranney tore him apart by asking if he has spoken to
the VP or the VP's peer and said that he "does not have a fucking deal" so call
the VP right now (p. 50).
6. It's important to be transparent in your company (p. 66).
7. Do not hire for **lack of weakness**. Hire for **strengths** (p. 74).
8. Humans tend to take action on positive indicators and look for alternative
explanations on negative leading indicators (p. 87).
9. In good organizations, people can focus on their work and have confidence
that if they get their work done, good things will happen for both the company
and them personally (p. 101).
10. Startups should train their people (p. 105).
11. If you would be shocked and horrified if Company X hired several of your
employees, then you should not hire any of theirs (p. 117).
12. Giving the team a task that it cannot possibly perform is called crippling
the army (p. 131). 
13. Anything you measure automatically creates a set of employee behaviours (p.
133).
14. Management debt (p. 134).
15. Titles and promotions. The Peter Principle and The Law Of Crappy People (p.
159).
16. When you hire someone new (or even some senior executive), demand cultural
compliance. It's your company, your culture, and your way of doing business (p.
173).
17. One-on-one meetings (p. 176).
18. Everybody learns to be a CEO by being a CEO. No training can prepare you for
it (p. 202).
19. If you don't like choosing between horrible and cataclysmic, don't become
CEO (p. 206).
20. When the company gets large, and the founders do not have the courage to
decide who is in charge, every employee suffers the inconvenience of double
approval (p. 210). 
21. A CEO must be able to articulate the vision, align interests, and have the
ability to achieve the vision (p. 222).
22. Shit sandwich (p. 230). Well, just be honest. I don't really do the shit
sandwich stuff.
23. As CEO, there is never enough time to gather all information needed to make
a decision. You must systematically acquire the knowledge of everything that
might impact any decision that you might make (p. 238). Some example questions
here.
24. Freaky Friday Management Technique. Swap the heads of 2 quarrelling
divisions (p. 252).
25. Is the company for sale? The best answer: If the company achieves
product-market fit in a very large market and has an excellent chance to be
number one, then the company will likely remain independent. If not, it will
likely be sold (p. 262).


### Well Designed: How to Use Empathy to Create Products People Love - Jon Kolko
16th April 2017. My entrepreneurship experience over the past 6 months was using
technology as a hammer and finding a nail. Nothing wrong with using this, this
was EF's method of using edge based ideation. You work on what you're good at.
Throughout the entire process, I did feel that something was unnatural. Yes, you
do work on your edge, but are you married to the problem? I felt I was married
to a technology, but I wasn't married to a problem. Perhaps the ideal state
would be to be married to a problem and at the same time the technology that
solves it. Well, life, and by extension entrepreneurship, is a journey that is
amorphous and we all learn along the way. We change our beliefs when we get new
information. It's not that we aren't consistent. We are consistently adapting.

This book offered a fresh perspective. It reminded me of my days back in SUTD
when we were doing 3.007. It's only in hindsight that we see the true benefit of
3.007. I think right now I'm gravitating towards solving a full stack solution.
Businesses don't buy piecemeal technology. They buy a solution. A fish farm
won't just buy your code that can count fish from a video feed really well. They
want the actuation system, they want the integrated feeding machine, etc. Time
for some quotes from this book!

1. What makes these companies unique is that their products are the result of a
   *design process*, and it is this process that has led to unprecendeted media
   fascination and consumer adoption. Modern start-ups like Airbnb and large
   corporations like JetBlue or Starbucks have proven that industry disruption
   is possible not by focusing on adding features or merely getting people to
   buy more, but instead by focusing on providing deep, meaningful engagement to
   the people who use their products or services. **This engagement is achieved
   by designing products that seem as though they have a personality or even a
   soul.  These products feel less like manufactured artifacts and more like
   good friends** (p. 3).
2. How can you gain such genuine empathy? The only way is by spending time with
   people and getting to know them on a personal and intimate level, doing your
   best to see what they see and experience what they experience (p. 5).
3. That empathy is the key to building meaningful products, and empathy can be
   taught and learned (p. 6). This reminds me of the Clayton Christenson book on
   the "milkshake" and why people buy a milkshake.
4. Product management is about ensuring a good fit between a product, a person,
   and the market (p. 15).
5. The fit between a product and a person depends on the features included in
   the product, the emotions that are evoked by an experience with the product,
   the style of the product, the ease of integration between the product and
   other products, and the ability for the product to help a person achieve his
   or her goals (both utilitarian and aspirational) (p. 15). Once again, the
   milkshake story!
6. The design process is commonly described as *user centered*, rather than
   *market or technology centered*, meaning that decisions are made in order to
   help people accomplish their goals and achieve their aspirations (p. 17).
7. Product managers who have a background in design typically pursue a product
   strategy that is *user centered*. When they make a decision, it's primarily
   in support of the people who will use the product, rather than in support of
   a business driver or a technological advancement. This doesn't mean that
   product management by design ignores technology or the realities of business.
   It simply places a priority on people, rather than prioritizing business or
   engineering, and uses this lens to resolve conflicts and prioritize decisions
   (p. 17).
8. Product manager will frequently find herself acting as a champion for
   people's wants, needs, and desires (p. 19).
9. Instead, you must perceive technology as a means towards a larger end, and
   that larger end is to help people achieve their goals and realize their hopes
   and dreams (p. 21).
10. Designers learn to move forward with just enough data, but even the most
    informed intuitive leap will occasionally be wrong (p. 22). Reminds me of
    something similar mentioned in Art & Fear!
11. One school of thought in product management is "lean", where there's a
    development of an MVP and then iterations. While this scientific process may
    successfully drive incremental product enhancements, it does little for
    producing leapfrog-style innovations. When you leverage a design process,
    you'll be pursuing a decidedly different approach, one that may be
    fundamentally at odds with the scientific measurement ideas of lean product
    development (p. 23).
12. At the end of the day, customers don't give a crap who worked on what, and
    what kind of engineer was involved, and so on. They don't care. They just
    want a great service (p. 29).
13. Airbnb story of email future testimonial from customers (p. 30, 31).
14. How do you prioritize all these great ideas from everyone in the company? Be
    led by a Vision and have a North Star that everyone is headed towards.
    Articulate on the experience that we want to create for people who use the
    service in the future (p. 31 - 32).
15. We lived through a prototype and we knew what it felt like. We were married
    to the problem. We understood it in a way that others didn't. We felt
    strongly that, if we stuck with it, others would see what we saw (p. 33).
16. While a product concept may seem quite valuable, society as a whole may lack
    the cultural and technological infrastructure to support that product (p.
    37). Examples include GPS in 1973, but consumer version in 2000 and
    widespread use by Apple in Maps in 2007 (p. 37). Microwave technology in
    late 1930s, commercialized in 1940s, but didn't catch on till fifty years
    later (people didn't feel it was safe) (p. 37).
17. The market is a space of customers, users, competitors, policies, laws, and
    trends (p. 38).
18. Interpreting signals (from the market) requires time and experience, and
    because it's subjective, it adds risk. A signal is objective and neutral; an
    interpretation is biased (p. 43).
19. Rather than focusing on what the competition says and does, consider that
    product data about *the market* can be gathered more successfully from two
    other places: the way *a community responds to the competition*, and the way
    in which *the competition engages with technological advancement* (p. 46).
20. Anything that will be a billion dollar industry in 10 years is already 10
    years old. If you study history, almost no one invented anything (p. 49). To
    catch the signal, you have to read tech journals and attend highly esoteric
    tech conferences.
21. Develop a value goal statement. It is the value (human characteristics like
    love, connection, respect, pride) that will differentiate you in the market,
    not features (p. 51).
22. Differentiation will come by recognizing and catering toward the emotional
    and the experiential: how does it feel before, during, and after the flight
    (p. 53)? All airplanes are built the same (almost)!
23. As a strategic exercise ... Tell a story of a future in which your product
    loses. Why does it lose (p. 59)?
24. You typicall start with something that seems like it can make an impact (p.
    61).
25. It's important and really powerful to get out of your own head and think
    about how other people will engage with a system or a product, and make sure
    you are making choices that are meaningful to them, not to you (p. 63).
26. The product manager doesn't own the road map; the product manager *produces*
    the road map, based on the consensus conversations with design, engineering,
    and business (p. 64).
27. You also need to be a good storyteller. Great product managers can tell a
    story about the user, what he is doing in his life today, and what he would
    be able to do in the future if we just got him the right product (p. 65). It
    doesn't have to be "it's a phone that's 4 inches by 3 inches etc." but it
    can be like "imagine if someone can pull out a device that can access all
    the information in the world".
28. You might have to adopt a lean and agile method for B2B sales because you
    have to do that back and forth to get to what the B2B customer needs in the
    market and is willing to pay for. But for consumers, you have to have more
    of a vision, something like, "wouldn't it be great if this was how the world
    works?" (p. 67)
29. Imagine this interaction as a dialogue, as if your product is literally
    having a conversation with a person (p. 72). And it's somewhat true! We do
    have such conversations with products every day, just subtly.
30. What does it feel like to drive, given the various physical changes that the
    human body encounters when it gets old? You could role-play, like an actor,
    and that would get you closer to feeling what an older driver might
    experience (p. 75). You could wear gloves, paint a layer of dirt on your
    glasses, etc.
31. You need to be in the place where the behavior actually happens. You need to
    watch the behavior happen. And you need to talk to the people who are doing
    it (p. 76).
32. **Gathering Behavioral Signals** (p. 76) This part is about how to conduct
    customer needs analysis or extract latent needs. Establish and articulate a
    focus; prepare a series of set questions, but try not to use them; get in
    context, and record everything; ask to see examples; ask to try it; watch at
    the extremities. 
33. **Communicate The Results** (p. 93) When you have some insights, you want to
    communicate things that happened, things that you saw, things that you felt,
    interpretations of what happened, interpretations of how you felt,
    implications of your interpretations of what happened and how you felt, and
    then translate all these to *actionable design stuff*.
34. Successful products come from everyone on the team knowing what you are
    doing and why you are doing it (p. 104). Yes, cue NASA story!
35. Now, it's evolved from knowing that users are important to saying, "Hey, you
    should really consider how people *feel*." (p. 106)
36. The first part of the design strategy is the emotional value proposition (p.
    117). 
37. If your product were alive, what kind of person would it be? (p. 119).
38. When you try to understand the stance you want a product to take, you
    naturally begin to consider time-based interactions (p. 120).
39. When technology changes, tasks usually change, but goals remain constant (p.
    127).
40. Once you get past good enough, it can take infinite time to polish to
    perfection (p. 132).
41. I got good at identifying that this person has this pain point, and this is
    how I'm going to sell to them, and technologically, this is how I'm going to
    solve the problem (p. 133).
42. **The entire part on Mark Philip, CEO of RUWT?! is good.** (p. 129)
43. It's easy to go down a rabbit hole, to build something because it's elegant
    code-wise - and no one will ever use it (p. 137).
44. Most professionals rely on a verbal, logical argument as if the best
    argument is the most rational. Whether that *should* be the case is
    debatable; it certainly isn't the case in most organizations, where
    stakeholders are often persuaded by their emotions (p. 141).
45. Introduce the product road map into the organization through one-on-one
    meetings and in presentations and conversations. There should be to
    announcement, unveiling, or massive production associated with it (p. 150).
    Remember, everyone builds the road map!
46. **Use visual moods**. (p. 158) I personally think the graphical design has
    to be awesome in all aspects of color, typography, composition, balance,
    saturation, imagery.
47. We hear so much of iteration, but hardly hear of variation. Variation is a
    way of adding a sense of objectivity to design exploration. Variation is an
    exploration of alternatives, where an iteration moves an idea forward (or
    backward), a variation moves an idea left or right, and is not productive in
    a typical engineering sense because the expectation is that all of the
    variations (except one) will be rejected (p. 161). 
48. F. Scott Fitzgerald: "The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability
    to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the
    ability to function" (p. 162).
49. You can have people who are technically very sophisticated, insightful, and
    competent who don't succeed as product managers because nobody wants to
    follow them - because they aren't effective communicators or collaborators
    (p. 166).
50. I toggle between my rational brain that says, "Here's what the competition
    is doing, here's what the data says the customers want," and my emotional
    feelings that "this will have impact. No one has said they want this, no one
    has done it before, but I'm looking at it and I think it will have impact."
    ... Rational mind or emotional mind: you have to make the decisions or you
    won't progress (p. 171).
51. Awash in the data and can't decide: *analysis paralysis* (p. 174).
52. **What do you see as the difference in product decisions made by designers
    compared to those by engineers or marketers?** (p. 175).
53. Overall, the last chapter was about shipping and creating the product road
    map. The part about storytelling is really important. It acts as a bridge
    between capability and feature (p. 186). 
54. Priotize functionality and manage a backlog of good ideas (p. 187).
55. Publicly track user value. Come up with your own metrics and indicators (p.
    188)!
56. Keep lists. When people come to you with a great idea, be sure you write it
    down or keep it somewhere and get back to them when you remember. It
    pleasantly surprises people (p. 191)!
57. Be very meticulous about all the details of your product. Especially the
    developers, because they sometimes do not get the intricacies of it (p.
    197).
58. You can short-circuit endless debates over features, functions, and design
    details by making *things*. The thing can be a diagram, a sketch, or a
    high-level fidelity design artifact. When you make a thing, an idea becomes
    real (p. 199).
59. Start a launch cadence (p. 201). Sometimes, you might be tempted to wait for
    a whole set of features to be done before release, while this might be good,
    a regular launch cadence for interim releases does help the team feel like
    they are making progress.
60. **Motivating Engineers**. (p. 202). Include a rationale for each item on the
    road map, provide measurable indicators of success, etc.

I learnt a lot from this book and I would definitely keep this in my hand if I
am building a product.
