---
title: 2018 Books
layout: post
tags: books
local: 2018-01-01-2018-books
---

Refer to [First Post of 2018]({% post_url 2016-01-24-project-euler-1-to-100 %})
for my thoughts on the books read in 2017. Looking forward to populating this
page with more books in 2018!

### The Looming Tower - Lawrence Wright 
4th February 2018. First book of the year! This book is about the events leading
up to 9/11. The events had a common theme; the main reasons as to why it
happened was because of politics, religion and economics. The more history I
read, the more I realize that the world will never be in a constant state. The
great Egyptian and Roman empires fell. It is naive to think that the current
state of the world would be the same in a 100 years. What then, is the fabric
that holds the country/world together? 

It's a simple question but it's hard to answer. We have monarchies, democracies,
dictatorships, etc. We have different religions. We have people of different
colour. The single thing that holds us together is language. With language, we
can have dialogue. With dialogue, we can build a common understanding. With the
common understanding, we can then agree to disagree on various issues and
further the country's interest. This I believe, is a short summary on what holds
the world together.

If we think deeper about it, why are we doing all this? Why are we always
constantly trying to increase GDP? Are we measuring the right things? I don't
have an answer to that.

What I do know, is something that seemingly hasn't changed since time
immemorial. I'm always reminded of Marcus Aurelius, and the principles that we
can learn from Meditations. 

WORK IN PROGRESS. PUSHING IT NOW.


