---
title: 2018 Books
layout: post
tags: books
local: 2018-01-01-2018-books
---

* TOC
{:toc}

Refer to [First Post of 2018]({% post_url 2018-01-03-first-post %})
for my thoughts on the books read in 2017. Looking forward to populating this
page with more books in 2018!

### Artemis - Andy Weir
4th December 2018. The number I books I read is proportional to the time I spend
flying. I didn't know Andy Weir is a programmer-turned-writer. He wrote the book
"The Martian" as well, which was a movie in 2017. Interesting plot of colonizing
the moon - Weir even included calculations on how he thinks this is possible. If
there's a third book, I hope they combine the plots of "The Martian" and
"Artemis" into a single universe.

### Elon Musk - Ashlee Vance
16th February 2018. Elon Musk has the potential of being on the same level as
Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein. Some might argue that Musk is a successful
industrialist and should be compared to Carnegie and Ford. I disagree. Musk is
pursuing a vision far greater than anyone has thought of: Humans as an
interplanetary species. And he might actually be on track to succeeding, with
the super impressive Falcon Heavy launch and successful landing of the rockets.
Musk is pretty inspiring. He has both positive and negative attributes and I
could definitely learn from his positive attributes. Some notable quotes from
the book:

1. The best minds of my generation are thinking about how to make people click
   ads (p. 12).
2. Read Huebner's paper on "A Possible Declining Trend in Worldwide Innovation"
   (p. 13).
3. Zip2 was Musk's first start-up and it was advertising related. People told
   his salesman that "advertising on the Internet sounded like the dumbest thing
   they had ever heard of" (p. 64). Look where we are for that now. We shouldn't
   always listen to everyone!
4. Okay, what are the things that affect how a team functions. The first obvious
   assumption would be that other people will behave like you. But that's not
   true. Even if they would like to behave like you, they don't necessarily have
   all the assumptions or information that you have in your mind. So, if I know
   a certain set of things, and I talk to a replica of myself but only
   communicate half the information, you can't expect that the replica would
   come to the same conclusion. You have to put yourself in a position where you
   say, 'Well, how would this sound to them, knowing what they know?' (p. 73).
5. They might take their chances entering a credit card number but exposing just
   their bank accounts to the Web was out of the question to many (p. 77). Look
   where we are with online banking now.
6. The whole idea was to shift away from slow-moving banks with their mainframes
   taking days to process payments and to create a kind of agile bank account
   where you could move money around with a couple of clicks on a mouse or an
   e-mail (p. 84).
7. The PayPal episode was a mixed bag for Musk ... The book painted Musk as an
   egomaniacal, stubborn jerk, making wrong decisions at every turn, and
   portrayed Thiel and Levchin as heroic geniuses (p. 89). I always thought
   PayPal was led by Thiel, turns out that was true but I didn't get the full
   story.
8. He could have spent ten million dollars to send up the mice, but instead
   he'll spend hundreds of millions and probably fail like all the others that
   proceeded him (p. 109). Look where Musk is now.
9. Tom Mueller was the driving force behind SpaceX (p. 109).
10. I told him that yeah, I'd worked on a 650,000-pound thrust engine at TRW and
    knew every part of it. Mueller set the engine down and tried to keep up with
    Musk's interrogation. "How much would that big engine cost?" Musk asked.
    Mueller told him TRW built it for about $12 million. Musk shot back, "Yeah,
    but how much could you really do it for?" (p. 111) This has got to be one of
    the best questions in the entire book.
11. Kestrel started out as a rael dog, and one of my proudest moments was taking
    it from terrible to great performance with stuff we bought online and did in
    the machine shop. Some members of the Texas crew honed their skills to the
    point that they could build a test-worthy engine in three days. These same
    people were required to be adept at software (p. 125).
12. What Musk would not tolerate were excuses or the lack of a clear plan of
    attack (p. 126). 
13. When you interview make sure you can talk concretely about what you do
    rather than use buzzwords (p. 130).
14. The engineering corps flew into a collective rage every time they caught
    Musk in the press claiming to have designed the Falcon rocket more or less
    by himself (p. 133).
15. The entire part on Kwajalein Island was amazing (p. 135). 
16. The engineers were constantly baffled by what Musk would fund and what he
    wouldn't. Back at headquarters, someone would ask to buy a $200,000 machine
    or a pricey part that they deemed essential to Falcon 1's success, and Musk
    would deny the request. And yet he was totally comfortable paying a similar
    amount to put a shiny surface on the factory floor to make it look nice. On
    Omelek, the workers wanted to pave a two-hundred-yard pathway between the
    hangar and the launchpad to make it easier to transport the rocket. Musk
    refused (p. 137). I'm baffled by this too but there was a section where it
    was said that Musk does everything based on the daily burn rate.
17. The dash to the United States and back showed that SpaceX's thirty-person
    team had real pluck in the face of adversity and inspired everyone on the
    island. A traditional three-hundred-person-strong aerospace launch crew
    would never have tried to fix a rocket like that on the fly (p. 139).
18. Had anyone from Detroit stopped by Tesla Motors at this point, they would
    have ended up in hysterics. The sum total of the company's automotive
    expertise was that a couple of the guys at Tesla really liked cars and
    another one had created a series of science fair projects based on
    technology that the automotive industry considered ridiculous. What's more,
    the founding team had no intention of turning to Detroit for advice on how
    to build a car company. No, Tesla would do what every other Silicon Valley
    start-up had done before it, which was hire a bunch of young, hungry
    engineers and figure things out as they went along (p. 155). 
19. An undergraduate, Berdichevsky volunteered to quit school, work for free,
    and sweep the floors at Tesla if that's what it took to get a job. The
    founders were impressed with his spirit and hired Berdichevsky after one
    meeting (p. 156).
20. Tesla formed a six-person task force to deal with the battery issue (p.
    159). The entire part on the exploding batteries was interesting.
21. Eberhard was apparently the founder of Tesla (p. 171). 
22. If you told him that you made a particular choice because 'it was the
    standard way things had always been done,' he'd kick you out of a meeting
    fast. He'd say, 'I never want to hear that phrase again ... ' (p. 177).
23. The total market for satellites, related services, and the rocket launches
    needed to carry them to space has exploded over the past decade from about
    $60 billion per year to more than $200 billion (p. 216).
24. He rebuffed requests to buy specialized tooling equipment, until the
    engineers could explain in clear terms why they needed certain things and
    until experience taught him better (p. 229).
25. Musk would grill people and ask a lot of questions because he was trying to
    learn (p. 230).
26. The story of Steve Davis (p. 234).
27. Acronyms (p. 239).
28. Elon felt like it was the most important problem facing Tesla at the time
    and that's always what he deals with and how he prioritizes (p. 309).

Elon is successful because of his character. With his first success, he built on
it and there were compounding effects, which is what we see today. Only time
will tell if his companies will be successful, but I believe it will. He has
formed something of a cult following and that definitely feeds his ego and
drives him to work even harder. He's even compared to Tony Stark, which is
probably the best compliment of the 21st Century.

### Merchants of Doubt - Naomi Oreskes & Erik M. Conway
May 2018. I actually forgot I read this book. I remember completing it while in
UK but did not write about it until the last day of 2018. One thing I remember
vividly was the fact that tobacco firms funded research to support smoking even
though they knew that it was not good for health.

1. When posed to jounralists, however, the loaded questions did the trick: they
   convinced people who didn't know otherwise that there was still a lot of
   doubt about the whole matter (p. 18). This part talks about how the industry
   asked questions like "why do cancer rates vary greatly between cities even
   when smoking rates are similar"? This is a legitimate question and raises
   doubt in those who did not know better.
2. It was established that smokers were ten to twenty times more likely to get
   lung cancer than nonsmokers. The release of this report would be explosive
   and it was released on a Saturday. Half of all adult Americans smoked. The
   government promoted and profited from it through subsidizing tobacco farming
   and tobacco sales were an enormous source of both federal and state tax
   revenues. This was the biggest news story in 1964 and in hindsight, is
   actually the biggest new stories of the era (p. 22).
3. Doubt is crucial to science - in the version we call curiosity or healthy
   skepticism, it drives science forward - but it also makes science vulnerable
   to misrepresentation, because it is easy to take uncertainties out of context
   and create the impression that everything is unresolved. This was the tobacco
   industry's key insight: that you could use normal scientific uncertainty to
   undermine the status of actual scientific knowledge (p. 34).
4. In an infamous memo written by one tobacco industry executive in 1969: "Doubt
   is our product" (p. 34).
5. "The absence of a deployed system by this time is difficult to understand.
   The implication could be that the Soviets have, in fact, deployed some
   operational non-acoustic systems and will deploy more in the next few years."
   The panel saw evidence that the Soviets had not achieved a particular
   capability as proof that it had. The writer C. S. Lewis once characterized
   this style of argument: "The very lack of evidence is thus treated as
   evidence; the absence of smoke proves that the fire is very carefully
   hidden." Such arguments are effectively impossible to refute, as Lewis noted.
   "A belief in invisible cats cannot be logically disproved," although it does
   "tell us a good deal about those who hold it." (p. 41)
6. They understood the power of language: you could undermine your opponents'
   claims by insisting that theirs were uncertain, while presenting yourown as
   if they were not (p. 42).
7. The Fairness Doctrine had been established in the late 1940s, when radio and
   television licenses were scarce and tightly controlled by the U.S.
   government. Air time had to be provided for presentation of contrasting view
   points. Even though a particular view was supported by 650 scientists and the
   other only by 2, equal time was still granted. Does fairness require equal
   time for unequal views (p. 57).
8. Of course the models were simplified, no on edenied that. Every model is, in
   a sense, a conjecture, just as every scientific theory is. But just as
   theories are tested by observation, models are built on established theory
   and observation. The models Seitz was attacking were state-of-the-art: the
   most sophisticated approach available. If they weren't perfect, Seitz wasn't
   offering anything better. And neither was anyone else (p. 60).
9. Nothing is ever entirely clear. There are always more questions to be asked,
   which is expert consensus is so significant - a point we will return to later
   in this book (p. 71).
10. Science is never finished, so the relevant policy question is always whether
    the available evidence is persuasive, and whether the established facts
    outweight the residual uncertainties. This is a judgment call (p. 76).
11. Even in the absence of precise scientific knowledge, you just know in your
    heart that you can't throw 25 million tons a year of sulfates into the
    Northeast and not expect some ... consequences (p. 91).
12. In Rahn's opinion, nothing important had been added or deleted, but changes
    in order, in adjectives, and in tone had changed the tenor of the report, so
    the reader was left with a very different impression (p. 98).
13. Once again, scientific claims were being published in scientific journals,
    where only scientists would read them, but unscientific claims were being
    published in the mass media (p. 111).
14. Industry disinformation campaigns now took new and creative forms. Sylvester
    Stallone was paid 500K to use Brown and Williamson products in no fewer than
    five feature films to link smoking with power and strength, rather than
    sickness and death (p. 139).
15. We've noted how the notion of balance was enshrined in the Fairness
    Doctrine, and it may make sense for political news in a two-party system
    (although not in a multiparty system)( p. 214). Hmm... Does it really make
    sense though?
16. Rachel Carson was compared to Stalin and Hitler due to the "number of deaths
    she caused" because of her work on DDT and other pesticides which showed
    that they were doing great harm (p. 223).
17. The notion of "equal time" remains enshrined in Americans sense of justice
    and fair play (p. 240).
18. The belief that technology can solve society's problems is central to the
    school of thought known as Cornucopianism, promoted by the economist Julian
    Simon. Cornucopians see themselves as responding to the philosophy of Thomas
    Malthus, who famously argued that the poor were poor because they had too
    many children, and the Enlightenment belief in the continued improvement of
    mankind was erroneous, because unchecked population growth would eventually
    outstrip resources (p. 256). Note to self: read about these philosophies.

The phrasing of what you write is extremely important. Lean towards writing
stuff factually, but sometimes, when you have to convince the public for the
greater good, it might be a good idea to still write facts but lean slightly
towards good phrasing.

### The Looming Tower - Lawrence Wright 
4th February 2018. First book of the year! This book is about the events leading
up to 9/11. The events had a common theme; the main reasons as to why it
happened was because of politics, religion and economics. The more history I
read, the more I realize that the world will never be in a constant state. The
great Egyptian and Roman empires fell. It is naive to think that the current
state of the world would be the same in a 100 years. What then, is the fabric
that holds the country/world together? 

It's a simple question but it's hard to answer. We have monarchies, democracies,
dictatorships, etc. We have different religions. We have people of different
colour. The single thing that holds us together is language. With language, we
can have dialogue. With dialogue, we can build a common understanding. With the
common understanding, we can then agree to disagree on various issues and
further the entity's interests. Tribes of cavemen in the past probably used sign
language to communicate with other tribes. Countries today hold high level
meetings to communicate with other countries. In summary, language, is the
fabric that holds the world together. 

This is an established fact for all of known human history (if you don't
nitpick, but feel free to email me for a debate on this). While this is true,
I'd like to challenge it. I don't believe the future will be held together by
language. I believe the future will be held together by ideals that are related
to the advancement of Man.

So what has all this got to do with the book? Well, once again, this statment is
an oversimplification, but if the entire world works with the vision of
"advancing Man", then perhaps we would achieve world peace and great
technological leaps.

### Sapiens - Yuval Noah Harari
1st September 2018. A great overview of the history of humankind. What exactly
are we as a society optimizing for? It definitely is not happiness - it's hard
to quantitatively measure that we are happier than the cavemen 10,000 years ago.
Harari makes a strong argument that humans are after immortality (and 2 other
things, which I forgot). And when we talk about optimizing for happiness, it
seems like we are only focused on humans. Chickens are thriving in terms of pure
population count, which seems like a sensible measure for the success of a
species. However, the collective (and probably the individual as well) suffering
of chickens is probably much greater than ever recorded in history. When humans
blindly optimize for growth, we lose sight of perhaps the "more" important
things in life like happiness and suffering. Are there better metrics?

1. Wheat did it by manipulating Homo sapiens to its advantage. This ape had been
   living a fairly comfortable life hunting and gathering until about 10,000
   years ago, but then began to invest more and more effort in cultivating wheat
   (p. 90). A real contrarian idea and food for thought.
2. Like the elite of ancient Egypt, most people in most cultures dedicate their
   lives to building pyramids. Only the names, shapes and sizes of these
   pyramids change from one culture to the other. They make take the form, for
   example, of a suburban cottage with a swimming pool and an evergreen lawn, or
   a gleaming penthouse with an enviable view. Few question the myths that cause
   us to desire the pyramid in the first place (p. 131). Another refreshing
   quote! Humans blindly optimize for "growth" and "prestige", but what causes
   this desire in the first place?
3. An economy of favours and obligations doesn't work when large numbers of
   strangers try to cooperate. It's one thing to provide free assistance to a
   sister or a neighbour, a very different thing to take care of foreigners who
   might never reciprocate the favour. One can fall back on barter. But barter
   is effectively only when exchanging a limited range of products. It cannot
   form the basis for a complex economy (p. 195). Does this still hold true in
   the digital world? Could cryptocurrencies break this?
4. The global empire being forged before our eyes is not governed by any
   particular state or ethnic group. Much like the Late Roman Empire, it is
   ruled by a multi-ethnic elite, and is held together by a common culture and
   common interests. Throughout the world, more and more entrepreneurs,
   engineers, experts, scholars, lawyers and managers are called to join the
   empire. They must ponder whether to answer the imperial call or to remain
   loyal to their state and their people. More and more choose the empire (p.
   232). It seems like borders are being eroded and large companies like Google
   are becoming the Empire.
5. No matter what you call it - game theory, postmodernism or memetics - the
   dynamics of history are **not directed towards enhancing human well-being**.
   There is no basis for thinking that the most successful cultures in history
   are necessarily the best ones for Homo sapiens. Like evolution, history
   disregards the happiness of individual organisms. And individual humans, for
   their part, are usually far too ignorant and weak to influence the course of
   history to their own advantage (p. 271). This is a scary thought. Most
   societies try and optimize human well-being - social safety nets, increasing
   standard of living, lowering cost of living, etc. Governments try and
   implement this, but populist parties will fight against social safety nets,
   gain power, and eventually reduce expenditure on them. I'm no expert on
   American politics, but it seems like Trump is trying to get Obamacare
   repealed, which purportedly is **enhancing human well-being**. Individual
   humans are far too weak to influence the course of history, but is this true?
   Can we say that Newton has influenced history greatly and perhaps Musk in
   future?
6. The story the Scottish Widows pension fund (p. 287).
7. Until the Scientific Revolution most human cultures did not believe in
   progress. They thought the golden age was in the past, and that the world was
   stagnant, if not deteriorating. Strict adherence to the wisdom of the ages
   might perhaps bring back the good old times, and human ingenuity might
   conceivably improve this or that facet of daily life. However, it was
   considered impossible for human know-how to overcome the world's fundamental
   problems. If even Muhammad, Jesus, Buddha and Confucius - who knew everything
   there is to know - were unable to abolish famine, disease, poverty and war
   from the world, how could we expect to do so (p. 294)? In that era, nobody
   believed that knowledge could solve the problems they faced. When we look at
   how far the world is come, everyone now believes that Science will solve the
   world's toughest problems. Did this hold true before and does it hold true
   now?
8. Until the eighteenth century, religions considered death and its aftermath
   central to the meaning of life ... The only modern ideology that still awards
   death a central role is nationalism. In its more poetic and desperate
   moments, nationalism promises that whoever dies for the nation will for ever
   live in it collective memory. Yet this promise is so fuzzy that even most
   nationalists do not really know what to make of it (p. 302). I do not have a
   religion - answering this question would help my search for meaning in life.
   I do not know what is in store for me in the afterlife, but I do want to find
   a metric to optimize for in this life.
9. Science can explain what exists in the world, how things work, and what might
   be in the future. By definition, it has no pretensions to knowing what should
   be in the future. Only religions and ideologies seek to answer such
   questions (p. 304). Given 2 research topics, one that can increase the yield
   of milk and the other the mental health of cows, which should be funded?
   There isn't a scientific answer to this question, but there are political,
   economical and religious reasons.
10. In short, scientific research can flourish only in alliance with some
    religion or ideology. The ideology justifies the costs of the research. In
    exchange the ideology influences the scientific agenda and determines what
    to do with the discoveries (p. 305). When looking at scientific progress, we
    have to look at the ideologies that influenced it, and 2 are particularly
    important - imperialism and capitalism.
11. In truth, neither the narrative of oppression and exploitation nor that of
    'the White Man's burden' completely matches the facts. The European empires
    did so many different things on such a large scale, that you can find plenty
    of examples to support whatever you want to say about them (p. 337). Refer
    to the Great Bengal Famine, amongst many other examples.
12. In the new capitalist creed, the first and most sacred commandment is: 'The
    profits of production must be reinvested in increasing production.' (p.
    349). How true, hoarding money is of no use.
13. This is the fly in the ointment of free-market capitalism. It cannot ensure
    that profits are gained in a fair way, or distributed in a fair manner. On
    the contrary, the craving to increase profits and production blinds people
    to anything that might stand in the way. When growth becomes a supreme good,
    unrestricted by any other ethical considerations, it can easily lead to
    catastrophe. Some religions, such as Christianity and Nazism, have killed
    millions out of burning hatred. Capitalism has killed millions out of cold
    indifference coupled with greed. The Atlantic slave trade did not stem from
    racist hatred towards Africans (p. 370). A great excerpt. Another example of
    how optimizing for growth in itself is probably not the best example. We
    tend to think of ideologies that kill lots of people as bad (Nazism), but we
    do not ever think of capitalism as such an ideology. We need to reflect more
    on this problem.
14. Even the freedom we value so highly may be working against us. We can choose
    our spouses, friends and neighbours, but they can choose to leave us. With
    the individual wielding unprecedented power to decide her own path in life,
    we find it ever harder to make commitments. We thus live in an increasingly
    lonely world of unravelling communities and families (p. 428).
15. If that's the case, even immortality might lead to discontent. Suppose
    science comes up with cures for all diseases, effective anti-ageing
    therapies and regenerative treatments that keep people indefinitely young.
    In all likelihood, the immediate result will be an unprecedented epidemic of
    anger and anxiety (p. 430). 
16. People are liberated from suffering not when they experience this or that
    fleeting pleasure, but rather when they understand the impermanent nature of
    all their fellings, and stop craving them (p. 442). This section talks about
    Buddhist teachings and segues into "New Age" stuff, like how the pursuit of
    feelings itself makes one unhappy.
17. Afterword (p. 465). Are we Gods now?

The main thing I got from this book was that humans are just chemical reactions,
and we get happy from these chemical reactions, and the unenlightened ones seek
these reactions. Perhaps that's because the last few chapters talked about this.
But then again - why put them to the last if they aren't important?

### Shoe Dog - Phil Knight
23rd July 2018. I've taken a long break from reading. Spent most of my spare
time working and reading technical books. Finally got down to reading this book
which was on my reading list for awhile. It's amazing how Phil ran his company
on debt in the early stages. Promising things that didn't exist yet. That's
perhaps how business works. It's also very admirable how he abided by his
principles of staying truthful - that won him many court cases. Breaking the
rules and hiding stuff from Nissho and then getting away with it because he was
driven by ambition was a great story. The Japanese were also very understanding.
Once again, these successful people are not driven by money - they are driven by
passion.  Phil had a fundamental belief in shoes. What's my fundamental belief?

On another note, I would love a library in my house in future. Just like the one
Johnson had. Some quotes:

1. I believe in running. I believed that if people got out and ran a few miles
   every day, the world would be a better place, and I believed these shoes were
   better to run in. People, sensing my belief, wanted some of that belief for
   themselves. Belief, I decided. Belief is irresistible (p. 56).
2. But business has its warlike parallels. Someone somewhere once said that
   business is war without bullets, and I tended to agree (p. 90).
3. Page 179 is the point where Phil started to manufacture Nike shoes.
4. Ours was a difficult, death-drenched age, and at least one every day you were
   forced to ask yourself: What's the point? (p. 213).
5. Supply and demand is always the root problem in business. It's been true
   since Phoenician traders raced to bring Rome the coveted purple dye that
   colored the clothing of royals and rich people; there was never enough purple
   to go around (p. 233).
6. Fear of failure, I thought, will never be our downfall as a company. Not that
   any of us thought we wouldn't fail; in fact we had every expectation that we
   would. But when we did fail, we had faith that we'd do it fast, learn from
   it, and be better for it (p. 254).
7. I would search my mind and heart and the only thing I could come up with was
   this world - "winning." (p. 281)
8. We were disrupting the nation's entire economic system, he said. It's simply
   not right, he insisted, or feasible, that a shoe worker makes more than a
   medical doctor (p. 374). This point really resonated with me. I've always
   wondered why poverty can't be solved by raising wages of everyone. These
   things take time.
9. And yet I know that this regret clashes with my secret regret - that I can't
   do it all over again (p. 381).

### Tell Tale - Jeffrey Archer
July 2018. Bought this from Copenhagen Kastrup Airport as I was going on a
flight back to London and had nothing to do on the flight as I just finished
another book (can't remember what it was). Entertaining read with many short
stories - there's even the one on the carpark attendant! I added this book to
this post after adding "The Three Secret Cities" and I must say that this style
of writing appeals to me more now.

### The Three Secret Cities - Matthew Reilly
21st December 2018. It's been close to a year since the previous book, The
Four Legendary Kingdoms, was released. I read that in January 2017.
Semi-interesting plot with predictable sequences. I've also gotten bored of this
style of writing for some reason. Nonetheless an entertaining read.

